---
title: Round G 2022 - Kick Start 
layout: page
tags: dp tree
published: true
---

## Walktober

### Problem

  John participates in an annual walking competition called *Walktober*. The competition  runs for a total of **N** days and tracks the daily steps of the participants  for all the **N** days. Each participant will be assigned a unique ID ranging from  1 to **M** where **M** is the total number of registered participants. A global scoreboard  is maintained tracking the daily steps of each participant.

  John is determined to win Walktober this year and his goal is to  score the maximum daily steps on each of the **N** days among all the participants.  Having participated in Walktober last year as well, he wanted to know how many steps  he fell short of in achieving his goal. Given the previous year scoreboard,  calculate the minimum additional steps he needed over his last year score in order  to achieve his goal of scoring the maximum daily steps every day.

### Input

  The first line of the input gives the number of test cases, **T**. **T** test  cases follow.  
  The first line of each test case contains three integers **M**, **N**, and **P**  denoting the total number of participants, the total number of days the  competition runs, and the last year participant ID of John.  
  The next **M** lines describe the scoreboard of the previous year and contains  **N** integers each. The *j*-th integer of the *i*-th line  denotes the step count **S****i****,****j** of the participant with ID *i* on the  *j*-th day of the competition.

### Output

  For each test case, output one line containing  `Case #x: y`, where *x* is the test case number  (starting from 1) and *y* is the minimum total additional steps needed by  John to achieve his goal.

### My Solution

```c++
#include<bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

int T;
int m,n,p;

int main() {
    cin>>T;
    for(int t=1;t<=T;t++) {
        cin>>m>>n>>p;
        vector<vector <int>> arr(m,vector<int>(n));
        for(int i=0;i<m;i++) {
            for(int j=0;j<n;j++) {
                cin>>arr[i][j];
            }
        }
        int cnt=0;
        for(int j=0;j<n;j++) {
            int ma=arr[p-1][j];
            for(int i=0;i<m;i++) {
                if(arr[i][j]>ma)
                    ma=arr[i][j];
            }
            cnt+=ma-arr[p-1][j];
        }
        cout<<"Case #"<<t<<": "<<cnt<<endl;
    
    }
    
	return 0;
}
```



## Curling

### Problem

  2022 is a year of the Winter Olympics! Curling has been one of the most  popular winter sports as it requires skill, strategy, and sometimes a bit of  luck.

  In a curling game, two teams compete by sliding heavy granite stones on a long  ice sheet. We call the teams the *red* team and the *yellow* team,  as their stones are usually distinguished by the red and the yellow handle  color. A curling game consists of several *ends* (subgames); in every  end, the teams, each owning 8

 stones, take turns to slide them across  the long ice sheet toward a circular target area called the *house*. A  stone may hit existing stones to change its own moving direction and other  stones' position (including knocking them out of play). Roughly speaking, the  goal for a team is to make their stones as close to the center of the house as  possible.

  Geometrically, a house and a stone can be modeled as a circle and a disk (the  region bounded by a circle), respectively, and the scoring rules at the  conclusion of each end are formally summarized as follows.

- Each stone can be viewed as a disk of radius **R****s** on a 2-dimensional    plane.  
- The house is a circle of radius **R****h** centered at (0,0).
- Only stones *in the house* are considered in the scoring. A stone is in    the house if any portion of the stone lies on or within the circle    representing the house. Tangency also counts.  
- A team is awarded 1 point for each of their own stones in the house    such that no opponent's stone is closer (in Euclidean distance) to the    center than it. We assume in this problem that no two stones are equally    close to the center (0,0).  

Two teams are playing and have just delivered all their stones. The red team  has **N** stones remaining on the curling sheet, centered at (**X****1**,**Y1**),(**X2**,**Y2**),…,(**XN**,**YN**), while the yellow team has **M** stones  remaining, centered at (**Z****1**,**W1**),(**Z2**,**W2**),…,**ZM**,**WM**). Now you are asked to figure out the scores of both teams.



### Input

  The first line of the input gives the number of test cases, **T**. **T** test  cases follow.

  Each test case begins with a line containing the two space-separated integers  **R****s** and **R****h**.  The next line contains the integer **N**. Then **N** lines follow, the *i*-th  line of which containing the two space-separated integers **X****i** and **Y****i**.

  After that, similarly, the next line contains the integer **M**. In the next **M**  lines, the *i*-th line contains the two space-separated integers **Z****i** and  **W****i**.

### Output

  For each test case, output one line containing  `Case #x: y z`, where *x* is the test case  number (starting from 1), *y* is the score of the red team, and *z* is  the score of the yellow team.



### My Solution

```c++
#include<bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;
using ll = long long;

int T;
ll rs,rh,n,m;
ll x,y;
int main() {
    cin>>T;
    for(int t=1;t<=T;t++) {
        cin>>rs>>rh>>n;
        vector<ll> narr;
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++) {
            cin>>x>>y;
            if(x*x+y*y<=(rs+rh)*(rs+rh)) {
                narr.push_back(x*x+y*y);
            }
        }
        cin>>m;
        vector<ll> marr;
        for(int i=0;i<m;i++) {
            cin>>x>>y;
            if(x*x+y*y<=(rs+rh)*(rs+rh)) {
                marr.push_back(x*x+y*y);
            }
        }
        sort(narr.begin(), narr.end());
        sort(marr.begin(), marr.end());
        if(narr.size() && marr.size()) {
            if(narr[0]<marr[0]) {
                cout<<"Case #"<<t<<": "<<lower_bound(narr.begin(),narr.end(),marr[0])-narr.begin()<<" 0"<<endl;
            }
            else {
                cout<<"Case #"<<t<<": 0 "<<lower_bound(marr.begin(),marr.end(),narr[0])-marr.begin()<<endl;
            }
        }
        else{
            cout<<"Case #"<<t<<": "<<narr.size()<<" "<<marr.size()<<endl;
        }
    
    }
    
	return 0;
}
```

## Happy Subarrays

### Problem

  Let us define *F*(*B*,*L*,*R*) as the sum of a subarray of an array *B*  bounded by indices *L* and *R* (both inclusive). Formally, *F*(*B*,*L*,*R*)=*B**L*+*B**L*+1+⋯+*B**R*.

  An array *C* of length *K* is called a happy array if all the prefix  sums of *C* are non-negative. Formally, the terms *F*(*C*,1,1),*F*(*C*,1,2),…,*F*(*C*,1,*K*) are all non-negative.  Given an array **A** of **N** integers, find the result of adding the sums of all  the happy subarrays in the array **A**.

### Input

  The first line of the input gives the number of test cases, **T**. **T** test  cases follow.  Each test case begins with one line consisting an integer **N** denoting the  number of integers in the input array **A**. Then the next line contains **N**  integers **A****1**,**A****2**,…,**A****N** representing the integers in  given input array **A**.

### Output

  For each test case, output one line containing  `Case #x: y`, where *x* is the test case number  (starting from 1) and *y* is the result of adding the sums of all happy  subarrays in the given input array **A**.

### My Solution

```c++
#include<bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;
using ll = long long;
using vint = vector<int>;
#define all(x) (x).begin(), (x).end()

int T;
ll n;

int main() {
    cin>>T;
    for(int t=1;t<=T;t++) {
        cin>>n;
        vint a(n);
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++) {
            cin>>a[i];
        }
        vint presum(n+1);
        presum[0]=0;
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++) {
            presum[i+1]=presum[i]+a[i];
        }
        int res=0;
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++) {
            for(int j=i;j<n;j++) {
                int sum = presum[j+1]-presum[i];
                if(sum>=0) {
                    res+=sum;
                    continue;
                }
                else {
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
        cout<<"Case #"<<t<<": "<<res<<endl;
    
    }
    
	return 0;
}
```

简陋版本，test set 2 TLE。



如何提升算法呢？







## Cute Little Butterfly

### Problem

  In a forest of the magical world, there lies a garden full of magical  creatures. The garden has plenty of flowers which are not just beautiful but  also a source of energy for butterflies.

  Consider the garden a 2D plane where the X-axis represents the ground, and the  Y-axis represents the altitude. There are plants of infinite height on every  non-negative integral point on the X-axis. There are **N** flowers in the  garden, where the *i*-th flower is on the point (**X****i**, **Y****i**) with the  nectar of some energy value **C****i**.

  Our cute little butterfly wants as much energy as possible to become strong.  By going to the same position of a flower, the butterfly can consume its nectar  and gain that flower's energy value. Each flower's nectar can only be consumed once.

  The butterfly is initially at point (0,1018) with 0 units of energy and  facing towards the right.  At any point, the butterfly can:

- Move to a lower altitude, that is, from (*x*,*y*) to (*x*,*y*−1) only if its current altitude is positive (*y*>0).
- Move in the positive direction along the X-axis, that is, from (*x*,*y*) to (*x*+1,*y*) if it is facing right.
- Move in the negative direction along the X-axis, that is, from (*x*,*y*) to (*x*−1,*y*) if it is facing left.
- Change the direction it is facing (from left to right or vice versa). This will consume **E** units of energy.

  We know our butterfly is lazy, and it hates to move upwards during the  journey. So, for this problem, we will assume that going upwards is not  allowed. Also, energy can be negative at any point. Negative energy means  the butterfly has spent more energy than it obtained from the flowers.

Find the *maximum* energy our cute butterfly can achieve.

### Input

  The first line of the input gives the number of test cases, **T*. **T** test  cases follow.
  The first line of each test case contains two integers, **N** and **E**: the  number of flowers and the energy required per turn, respectively.
  The next **N** lines describe the flowers. The *i*-th line contains three  integers, **X****i**, **Y****i** and **C****i**: the position and the energy value of the  *i*-th flower, respectively.

### Output

  For each test case, output one line containing  `Case #x: y`, where *x* is the test case number  (starting from 1) and *y* is the maximum overall energy our cute butterfly  can achieve.





